---
layout:     post
title:      The endless climb to Hjerkinn
categories: [A Ride on The Pilgrims' Route]
tags:       [EuroVelo, itinerary, bike-touring]
thumbnail:  /img/thumbnails/the-pilgrim-road.png
---

"Hi, what's up?" For a few second I am puzzled. The cyclist who just passed me 10 minutes before, is now passing me again. And this time he starts conversation. He is good looking, and seem keen on disussing, since he dangerously rides side by sie with me on this havily trafficated <?> national road (E6) on which I have been struggling for the past hours. Maybe did he stop in this resting area I passed in between? In a mix of Norwegian, Danish, English and Spanish, I explain him I am going to Santiago. De Chile? No, de Compostalla. Conversation is definitely not easy on that road, where he has to manœuvre each time a car is popping up behing us -- maybe every minute. Him <?> is going to Dombås.

I have crossed a few road cyclist since the beginning of my trip in Trondheim, but this one has two big cycle-bags and is obviously carrying a tent. As he is riding next to me, I do not yet think of trying to convince him to do an interview, as part of my reportage on long-distance bike-riders in Europe. I could ask him, for instance why he keeps cycling on this road despite the bad conditions. But after five minutes of the constant adjustments to the traffice, he finally says: "I keep talking, but I must catch up my brother. You seen him, no?". I try to answer something, but confusion prevent any word from coming out of my mouth, and anyway he is already 10 meters ahead.

## Down to Oppdal

Because this morning, when I got up in my sheep shelter in Trollheimen, I could not imagine that most of my day would be along the national road E6, squizzed between the trucks and the guard-rail. On the contrary, the morning was incredibly peaceful, with the slow rising sun casting through the shelter my silhouette as a shadow on the meadow behind it. The gentle rays were slowly drying up my equipment cought under the rain yesterday, and gloves and coat were not necessary anymore. I had only a few hundreds of meters before the pass -- occupied by contemplative sheep --  and then I enjoyed a smooth glide to Oppdal.

I arrived in Oppdal around ..., before most shops open. Oppdal is not the most interesting city, there is a residential area, and a commercial area, buildt as a European suburb mall: besides a swimming pool / cultural center / café, a multi-brand aluminium cube. At this time, only the gaz station was open, but it luckily served danish pastries, provided table with plugs and wifi. During a few hours, in a rush lest rain should start after noon, I did some pressing writing. The storm was coming from the North and was thus completely avoidable by climbing the montains southward ; I left Oppdal with no regret and on time.

## Enter the hell

That is when hell started. I have been on this route for now ... hours and ... kilometers. And it will continue for yet another ... hours and ... kilometers. In total ...  kms along the national route E6, the main junction between Oslo (1st city of Norway, 1 720 000 inhabitants) and Trondheim (4th city, 270 000), with turns into a proper 4 lanes motorway when approaching Oslo, without **any** cycle protection. From now and then, costless and effectiveless, sarcastic signboards picture a cyclist, smiling backwards to the automobilists: *Del vejen!* (Share the road!) No matter that the valley is actually idylic, with cascades, and a magnificent river: one cannot enjoy anything because one has to focus on keep one's handle bar, terrorized whenever one needs a sip of water - either you stop by the guard-rail, or you hold the handle bar with one hand while you drink, with the unavoidable swings that this causes on a bike as loaded as mine.

And please add to the description that the road have been gently but firmly climbing to the pass of Hjerkinn, while my knees have started to hurt. In the afternoon, when the rain had momentarily ceased to threaten, I have started to stop at smaller and smaller intervals, both to enjoy the landscape and take rests from the dangerous road. It is between to such stops that my cyclist companion is starting conversation.

## Endless stops to Hjerkinn

My first stop was an hour ago or so, actually the first resting station from Oppdal. It could have been a beautiful view over the river, but the landscape was dwarfed by the noisy road, the fake Sami souvenir shop. Handfuls of German tourists were stopping here as well, some of them so unconsiderate that they would park their motorbikes almost in my plate.

My second stop will be soon. I am now trying to catch up my ephemerous discussion companion, and already giving up as he is disappearing behind the hill 100 meters ahead. As I will pass Kongsvolf, I will remark the many cars stop, the beginning of pedestrian paths, and the eye-catcthy labels scattered in the vegetation. Kongsvold is actually a delightfull botanical garden maintained by .... university. It takes advantage of the incredible variety of biotopes offered by the place: humid or dry, sun or shadow, sandy or muddy... this unexpected rock inside the valley created inhabitat for all plants.

< image of the etiquettes >

My third stop will be as the road goes out of the river gorge to the higlands. The desolated, treeless landscape will recall me of Iceland. I will take some pictures at the top of an oportunistic hill in the middle of this flat land. Few camping cars will start parking in prevision for the night. In a last desperate effort, I will finish the climb to Hjerkinn, my uppermost point in the whole trip <check!>, at ... m.

< side note, the pedestrian Pilgrims' route>

## Dinner and rest

My objective was to reach Folldal before night, but as I will be arriving to Hjerkinn, the sky will be threatening and forecasts annoucing imminent rain. I will thus stop in the only hotel of the tiny village and, to pass time, order dinner. I will be served a typical Norwegian dinner: sweet porridge with reindeer suassage. Intersting. "A person familiar with the dish must really like it, will I think, but for me it is too surprising too even have an opinion about it." As I will be waiting for my electronic equipment to charge, I will delay my departure untill being friendly kicked out by the staff. freindl plugged all my equipment for charge.

After a last attempt to cycle until Folldal, and a last refusal from my knees, I will crash at the end of the first slope in the dryish upper part of a pitlands. I will not suspect that I will in reality spend more than 18 hours in this place.