---
layout:     post
title:      Up to the highlands
categories: [A Ride on The Pilgrims' Route]
tags:       [EuroVelo, itinerary, bike-touring]
thumbnail:  /img/thumbnails/the-pilgrim-road.png
---

## The encounter

Just now I am quite desperate, as I am seating in a corner of the hut. Not exactly a corner, actually, more the entrance of the hut. The view is nice, with the rain pouring over the salmon river some twenty metters under the pile of metalic residuals on which the hut is built. The view is nice, true, but the cold rain is in fact reaching continuously the right side of my body, since the corner where I am seating is, as I just said, not a corner but the entrance of the hut.

And the smell! Oh, yes, I did not tell: I am not alone in the hut. I have two friends with no names, a young one and an older one. And those friends - my dear! - stink.

I have tried everything I could to make those two companions leave, I really have tried, but they would not move. At least the lamb faked being afraid. Maybe its flegmatic moves outwards were just a polite way to acknowledge my existence, and those of my pathetic cries and gestures. Most probably, it was trapped between two contradictory instincts: on one side fear, whispering to escape away from this horrible hairless animal standing on its back legs and emitting this awful smell -- I am sure a lamb thinks that I am as stinky as I think it is. On the other hand, attachment to its mother. Yes. Indeed. My other companion, the one closest to me, is a an other sheep. The mother.

## Victory?

At some point the lamb had even gone on its feet, and I genuinely thought I had won. But no, it just needed to suck its mother's udder. And since the mother is even more flegmatic than its offspring -- "One more human yelling at me, so what?" -- it got unto its legs on place to sukle the lamb, not moving an inch away from me, and both mammals eventually stayed in the shelter.

And here I am, half in, half out of the shelter, trying to enlarge my personal space, slowly, moving the planks scattered on the ground to liberate the room for a protected seat, trying to avoid shit when I put my hands on the floor and move my buttocks to seat. How have I got trapped into this? This morning when I woke up at May-Britt and Stig's, I was far from thinking that few hours later I would be in the company of two sheep under the rain, over a centuries-old montain of melted metalic residuals from [the mining industry of Løkken](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/L%C3%B8kken_Mine).

## May-Britt

Actually, all started like a regular week-end, with a lovely brunch in May-Britt and Stig's garden. It was sunny, the children were playing, and we had plenty of time to continue our discussions from yesterday.

May-Britt is at the moment working at a supermarket, but she does not plan to stay so a lot longer. She is in fact studying to become a teacher and is almost done. Like in Denmark, highshcool teachers in Norway have 2 subjects to teach, and one of May-Britt's is religion. Religion... I must say that I am not religious at all: in my family, everyone is welcome to chose the religion that suits them, and most of my family members did not happen to chose any. When it comes to me, I am so not interested into religion that I am often a little frightened to talk with religious people -- I can understand the history or the ethics, but the faith I just can not understand. So when someone tries to talk about religion, I usually just try to talk about something else.

But May-Britt had attacked directly when, yesterday, she asked if I was a pilgrim of some kind, going from Trondheim (once [a famous pilgrimmage place](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/St._Olav%27s_shrine)) to Santiago-de-Compostella. And now she starts talking about religion teaching. Should I stop her?

But this conversation was actually really interestinf. First, May-Britt is *not* religious, and non-religious persons can teach religion in Norway. Stig presented her as an atheist, but she feels like agnosticism suits her better. From what she discribed of her teaching, "ethics" seems better suited than "religion". What it a good action? How should we behave in a collectivity? Is there a Greater Goal? That is the kind of questions May-Britt addresses in the so-called religion courses -- as well as some introduction to the main religious texts, supposedly not only the Bible.

## Stig

<!--.... was a teacher, but is not anymore. He actually joined a research team specialised into didactics, and we had passionate exchange about what is a good course, a good teacher. Among other things, ... is reponsible for creating the survey assessing the level of the students nation-wide.-->

## Geek time

After this gentle week-end discussion, interupted by a rain pourdown, I sat inside trying to create my first video out of the rushes from yesterday. It was hard and long -- I wanted to say harder than expected but actually I did not have any expectation. I was quite happy of the result, for a first try.

But this process took some time, maybe hours. Since it was noon when I got up, it was soon 4 pm, and my hosts, kindly bur firmly, started to be more pressing about the idea of me leaving the place. When I finally understood their less and less subtle messages, I packed everything as quickly as I could, as was uploading my first video on Facebook. And I made it, as was on the porch waving the family goodbye as their car was leaving the parking, I received my first automatic message "your video is ready to be published".

## To the highlands

Due to the absence of the sigposts -- I will understand only later that national route 7 is signed only from Lillehammer southwards -- I had to make some choices, comparing the reality of the landscape with the alledged route as registered on OpenStreetMap. Actually, very soon I <!--disparted?--> from the official track, but only quite late realised it, when I found myself on the other side of the valley, with no means to join the official itinerary. This created a big detour.

<!--image comparing the official route and what I did-->

I could finally recover the route, a steep, upward road climbing into the higlands. Once on top, a flat, somewhat tedious ballad into the pine forrest. Some torrents, that you never can tell in which direction they flow until you are few meters from them: the highlands can be very flat sometimes. And suddenly a river and I think: "A **salmon** river!". But it is starting to be late -- remember I started at ... pm -- and it starts raining. Not a hevay rain, but a constant, fine <!--crachin-->. On the other side of the river, a shelter.

## If not *in* then *on*

And here I am, in the "corner" of the shelter. Prisonner between two hostile sheep and the rain. How I regret the bed from the other night! In a few minutes I will lose my temper, grab a branch, use it to attack the sheep. I will succeed but, once I will have transported all my bags inside, I will realize that the smell did not come only for the animals, but also from their feices <!--?-->, spread all over the sleeping board. I will be close to desperate: on the pile of metal stones on which the shelter seats, it is actually impossible to plant any tent.

And suddenly an idea will pop up to my mind. At the next rain pause, I will spring out of the shelter, and swiftly deploy the tent. All constructions in this area have grass as insulation on the roof, and this one is no exception to the rule. I will thus plant my tent *on* the shelter. I will happen that my tent is exactly the right size for the roof ; and it will also happen that a lost <!--cisaille--> will enable me to cut the bushes that started growing on it. At the next pourdown, I will be under my nylon shelter, <!--en pente--> but away from the smell. I will not sleep well but at least will I sleep.