---
layout:     post
title:      Through Trondheim
categories: [A Ride on The Pilgrims' Route]
tags:       [EuroVelo, itinerary, bike-touring]
thumbnail:  /img/thumbnails/the-pilgrim-road.png
track:      
---

This morning, I woke up in [the recreationnal area](){: .locate #morning} I set up my tent in yesterday<!-- ADD LINK HERE -->. The sun barely went under the horizon: we are less than two weeks away from the soltice (June, 21st) and Trondheim is only 350 kilometers away from the artic circle. As a consequence, at already 6 am the temperature in the tent was unbearable, and I had to open the nylon door despite the risk of bugs popping in. There was no other surprise that night: a regular camping night, with rudimentary washing and tooth brushing.

Once on the bike, the few kilometers between [there](){: .locate #morning} and [Trondheim](){: .locate #trondheim} actually took hours to overcome. What took so long? Was it the poor signage? The hilly relief? The aftermath of a too strong and too long effort while just out of the plane yesterday? Surely a mix of all of that. But what is sure is that I did not arrive to Trondheim before ... although I was ready at ... .

## First impression of Norway in Trøndelag

The Trondelag (the region of Trondheim) has its own charm. While I was (slowly) biking along the shore, I could admire the relief and the vegetation, with pines dominating the cliffs that fall directly into the water. It was a curious feeling: nothing new to me, but a paradoxical mix of many different known landscapes, that one might have thought to be mutually exclusive but forming here a coherent whole. I succeeded into idenfifying at least three of those landscapes: first, the Riviera, where I used to go in summer as a child. Yes, Riviera, because of the pines everywhere -- not the same species, I guess! -- but also the rocks plunging into the sea, the hilly roads by the coast that goes from creek to creek, the beaches made of stones rather than sand.

Then Brittany (*Bretagne* in French), because although pines and rocks gave a vague impression of drought that reminded me of the South of France, a more attentive look would reveal a vegetation impossible without constant watering, mainly ferns. The humidity, the changing weather, the gentle warmth that guarantee you mild temperatures even in winter at allow you to have some plants your close neighbors from the highlands could never imagine -- palm trees in Vannes, kiwi trees in Trondheim -- all those characteristics of nothern Europe atlantic climate from Nantes to Edhimburg through Dublin.

Last but not least, Switzerland. And again, yes!, Switzerland. Because of the steep slopes, the sheptel, the wooden houses, the valleys, and most importantly the snow that you feel everywhere even though it is summer: here a snow-scooter under a tarpaulin ; there a ski-jump platform ; everywhere steeep roofs.

<!--photo of the ski platform-->

## The Phantom Itinerary

Now I stand in Oslo, looking for a short while at the fanous cathedral hosting the rests of. I won't talk about Trondheim now -- you will find an other post about the town -- but I must explain that it is because those relics attracted pilgrims in the Middle Ages, that Trondheim is the starting point of the EuroVelo route number 3, so-called "The Pilgrim's Route" and heading to a even more famous pilgrimage destination: Santiago-de-Compostella.

<!--photo of the cathedral-->

Talking about the route EuroVelo 3, where is it? I am now criss-crossing Trondheim in all directions but cannot find any trace of it. I did not expect to find any signs with the European flag with an inserted 3 -- almost no route yet is signed with the official signs -- but I should at least be able to find the signs of the Norwegian network, in which EuroVelo 3 is route number 7! But nor in the Toursim Office, nor in the bookshops can I find any bickle map... and the city is desperately empty of any long-distance signposts.

<!--aside about the Norwegian cycle network + lack of maps. As I will later learn from *VejDirektoratet*, it is on purpose that the authorities do not communicate a detailed map of the non-signed portions of the route since it is only when they start signing that also assess security -- as we will see, there *are* security issues with route number 7. Norway has a long way before becoming a true bike tourims destination, I can tell! -->

Fortunately, I have downwloaded [OpenCycleMap app](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=de.scriptbase.ocm), a small map service relying on [OpenCycleMap](http://www.opencyclemap.org), itself relying on [OpenStreetMap](http://www.opencyclemap.org), where a kind user have uploaded the full track of route 7, as it was planned by the authorities<!--footnote: Sometime, when starting signposting the itinerary, the traffice authority alter the plan, so that what is currently on OpenStreetMap may - in lesser extend - not correspond to reality-->. <!--something about this user?--> According to this very convenient tool, then, the route is supposed to start in front of Trondheim's main railway station. But even one in the place, there is absolutely no sign of such a route. What should I do? I tell you: I will follow the planned itinerary *as if* it was postsigned.

<!-- gif made of my trip round the roundabout -->

## From Trondheim to May-Britt and Stig's

First, I will get away from the city center. Instead of following the easier route in the valley, I will perform [the biggest detour](){: .locate} on Trondheim's western hills that, for a mysterious reason -- maybe the view -- the planning team has elected their itinerary. [The climb](){: .locate} on that hill will seem endless, and last more than one hour. On the other hand, after the climb will come [the glide](){: .locate}, as endless as the first one, but unfortunately shorter to experience. The detour will be so large that I will even reach [the ski-jumping platform of Granåsen](){: .locate}.

<!-- gif of the tramway: At the very beginning of the climb, the tramway reaches town. Trondheim has ... lines, and they were built in ... . -->

As I am standing before the cathedral, in Trondheim, few hours before my dinner, I do not expext such a detour. And when my May-Britt and Stig, who kindly offered to host me tonight, ask if I will be able to honour their dinner, I of course say "yes". I have even bought yogurt and cookies for dessert. And when I will be biking, I will have to constantly delay my arrival, to reflect the unexpected length of the itinerary. At the end, I will pray them to start without me and, after [a steep glide](){: .locate} down the highway bridge and [an unexpected cross-country ride](){: .locate} down and up accross a torrent valley invisible on the map, I will eventually arrive [at destination](){: .locate}, and catch up the delicious dinner.

<!-- image gif of the bridge: Relief is a thing that is important in Norway, but that Google Map have it hard to represent. Goiing from A to B on this map seems very simple, but the reality is different! You could of course have a jump from the bridge, but it is not sure that your bike will be in good conditions 100 meters under. That's another 10 minutes lost.-->

## A Norwegian Dinner

When the dinner will be finished, we will play a game where you have to draw concepts and pass it own, a mix between Pictionnary and the bush telegraph. I will like it but the way to count the points will seem unlogical (if the players before you do not correctly carry the original concept, you do not earn points even if *your* drawing is correctly identified by the next player ; on the contrary, if coincidentally the last player finds out the original meaning out of a wrong drawing, all the chain of players is rewarded). The game will probably make me think of [*cadavre exquis*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exquisite_corpse), and the French expression -- translating directly to "exquisite corpse" -- will surely make them laugh.

When the guests, two women and one husband, will leave -- late but still sunny -- we will seat with my host and discuss until we cannot even speak. We will finally stop speaking this mix of Norwegian and Danish we carried on all night with the guests: even though it positively contributed to preserving the friendliness of the dinner, it prevented us to have more advanced discussions. But I keep all the interesting stories they told me for tommorow, when I will portray the family more into details.

<!-- vidéo de la journée -->